Well, the time has come for the main talk of this graduation program.
It's going to be given by a member of the governing body, brother Gage Flegal.
Now, what's his theme again? What's that theme again?
Oh, I know. To whom do we belong?
I'm not going to sing for you. To whom do we belong?
When was the last time you said to yourself, I belong to Jehovah.
Maybe it was during the singing of song number 40 that we just concluded.
It's important for all of us really to think about our dedication vow.
Why? Because it helps us to focus on what's really important.
Our relationship with Jehovah. During this talk, we're going to discuss why belonging to Jehovah
is the most secure place to be. But we want to start off by discussing how we also belong to
the Christian congregation. And really, in what sense is that the case?
Well, I invite you to open to 1 Corinthians chapter three.
And first, a little bit of context. Beginning in chapter one, the Apostle Paul reveals that
the congregation in Corinth was divided. There were divisions in the congregation.
Some Christians were expressing favoritism. Some said, I belong to Paul. Others, I belong to
Apollo. Others, I belong to Cephas or Peter. Why? Well, those men had remarkable qualities and
abilities. But should they have focused on them so much? They had remarkable abilities in
teaching or in shepherding. Maybe the brothers in Corinth were heard saying, Apollo,
this is my favorite speaker, or Paul is my favorite missionary, or Peter is my favorite shepherd.
He sold down to earth. What was Paul's inspired council? We find it in verses 21 through 23.
1 Corinthians chapter three, verses 21 through 23. He said, so that no one boasts in men
for all things belong to you. Whether Paul or Apollo's or Cephas or the world or life or death
or things now here or things to come, all things belong to you. In turn, you belong to Christ,
Christ in turn belongs to God. Let no one boast in men. What's the point? The Christians in
Corinth really had no basis to say that they belong to Paul or Apollo's or to Peter. Instead,
it was the other way around. That was the reality. All things belong to you. All things belong to
the congregation, the Christian congregation. That is, all things God has made or arranged are at
the disposal of Christians for their benefit. Paul, Apollo, and Cephas were all working
unitedly to build up the Christian congregation. They all belong to the congregation as a gift from
God to help the congregation for the congregation's well-being. Where do we fit in these verses?
Where do you fit as Gilead soon to be graduates? How will that help you in your new assignments?
Well, we too are part of the collective Christian congregation to which all things belong, and that's
a comforting thought. What does that mean? Well, circuit overseers, field missionaries, congregation,
elders, Bethelites are a gift from Jehovah for our encouragement for the benefit of the congregation.
But we can turn that around as well. The opposite is true. Just like Paul, Apollo's and Cephas,
we too as our individuals belonging to the congregation. We are gifts from God for their well-being.
What does that mean? Well, simply put, at times we receive encouragement, at times we give encouragement
to others in the congregation. The Apostle Peter later wrote in 1 Peter 4 verse 10 to the extent
that each one has received a gift, use it in ministering. Now the Greek word rendered ministering
literally means serving. So ministering to one another, serving one another as fine stewards of
God's undeserved kindness, that is expressed in various ways. So each of you has a gift. Each of
you is a gift to the congregation. So continue to let Jehovah use you to help others. We can be
expressions of Jehovah's loving kindness, undeserved kindness to fellow believers, but only if we act
in their behalf. Now there's something else that Paul mentioned in this verse. He said,
in turn, you belong to Christ. Christ is head of the Christian congregation. So the congregation
is like a body, and the head controls the movement of the body. The head directs all the parts of
the body, how to move, how to perform work. So do we personally choose our assignments? Where do we
serve? Granted, we might pursue particular goals or avenues of service, but do we choose our
assignment and Bethel service? When I first came to Bethel, I had the idea that I wanted to work in
construction or in the art department. I was assigned to the binary. If we view each assignment as
coming from Jehovah or from Jesus Christ as the head, it will help us to be content and happy.
What about a new circuit over here? Does he get to choose where he wants to serve?
What about a newly appointed field missionary? Does he select the country or the city where he will
serve? You know the answer to that. We might compare to air traffic control at a major airport.
Jesus directs us through the organization when to take off and where and when to land.
Jesus might also tell us you're grounded. Maybe we're not ready for flight. Maybe we need to
refuel. Maybe it's time to retire the plane, but Jesus is in control. In New York, New Jersey,
nearly 1,200 flights passed through the airport every day. Total of 36,387 in August 2023.
That requires tremendous organization and coordination. They have to work around rainstorms,
snowstorms, windstorms, not just at the local airport, but in other places throughout the country too.
Well, what would happen if there was no air traffic control? Collisions damaged to aircraft
life might be lost? Complete chaos. There certainly would be problems.
What about the Christian congregation? Well, Jesus is the perfect leader and commander,
and we do our best to follow his direction. Think about the tremendous amount of work.
An organization involved in training and appointing branch committee members, circuit overseers,
congregation elders, ministerial servants, regular pioneers, not to mention the organization
of theocratic schools as well. Gilead, the school for kingdom evangelizers, school for congregation
elders, pioneer service schools, many others that requires organization and coordination. What we
might call tremendous air traffic control, aren't we glad that we belong to an organization with Christ
as the head? But at times it calls for personal sacrifices. The pilot can't tell air traffic
control when and where he wants to land. It requires personal sacrifices on his part. The August
1st, 1998 watchtower contained this life story of brother George Couch, a name familiar to us.
While serving in the circuit work in 1957, brother Couch and his wife were invited to serve at
Bethel instead. And brother Couch received some very pointed counsel from brother Noor, his first
day at Bethel. What did brother Noor tell him? He said, you're not a circuit servant anymore.
You are here to work at Bethel. This is the most important work that you have to do and we
want you to put your time and energy into applying the training you receive here at Bethel.
Brother Couch related the first assignment I had was in the magazine and mailing departments.
Later, after about three years brother Noor informed me that the real reason I was brought to
Bethel was to work in the home. You are here to run the Bethel home, he said.
While during those first three years brother Couch must have wondered why in the world he was
taken out of the circuit work to work in the magazine and mailing department.
But Jesus knew why, brother Noor knew why, and looking back on that, we know why too.
Brother Couch was dearly loved as the Bethel home overseer for many decades.
Incidentally, the title he chose for his life story is, we have done what we ought to have done.
A sterling example for all of us. So what have we learned to this point?
All things belong to you, all things belong to the congregation. We are servants to our brothers
and sisters. We care for one another as belonging to the same body. The Apostle Paul expressed that
well at Romans 12 verse 5. We are members belonging to one another. And you as a Gilead class have
already demonstrated that. You have rallied around one another. You have rallied around
Bethelites who have gone through difficult trials in their life. And we also learned that you
belong to Christ, the head of the Christian congregation, Christ Jesus determines how when and
where we might serve best. So yes, we belong to the congregation. And we can be confident that
any future assignments that we receive, there will be brothers and sisters there that we can
share that with. We can encourage. We can strengthen. We will find joy in ministering to others
just as Paul, Apollo's and Peter found joy in serving their Christian brothers as well.
Let's consider our second point now though. We belong to Jehovah. Do you remember the day of your
baptism? Do you remember the smell of the water? If it was in an assembly hall maybe chlorine,
if you were baptized in the sea, maybe there was a salt smell, maybe the temperature of the water
was what struck you the most. What about the baptism talk? Or the baptism questions? Well, every year
we're reminded of the questions three times, right? Two assemblies and one convention. Have you
repented of your sins? Dedicated yourself to Jehovah and accepted his way of salvation through Jesus
Christ. And second, do you understand that your baptism identifies you as one of Jehovah's witnesses
in association with his organization? Well, before hundreds, perhaps thousands of people,
of course the most important witnesses being in the heavens, we answered yes to those questions.
And then we were baptized. And how we made Jehovah's heart rejoice on that day.
But dedication is a personal choice. Our parents can't make that decision for us. Our Bible
teacher can't make that decision for us. Dedication to Jehovah is personal. And why do we dedicate our
life to Jehovah? Because we love him. We love his organization. Because we learned about his
beautiful personality. And during Gilead, you've learned many more reasons to love Jehovah and his
organization. So how do we now feel about our God? Perhaps as described in Isaiah chapter 44,
Isaiah 44, notice with me verse five, and see if this reflects your feelings towards Jehovah.
Isaiah 44, five, one will say, I belong to Jehovah. Another will call himself by the name of Jacob.
And yet another will write on his hand, belonging to Jehovah. And he will adopt the name of Israel.
Belonging to Jehovah written in permanent ink, we can't tell Jehovah that our dedication was a
mistake. No, we've attached ourselves to the Almighty God. What a privilege that is to belong to
the only true God. We're proud to bear his name, Jehovah. And at times like this, we might echo
the words of Joshua, as for me and my household, we will serve Jehovah.
Well, question is, how does that make Jehovah feel about you, that determination to continue
serving him? If you're still there in Isaiah, notice chapter 43 verse one. Now this is what Jehovah
says, your creator, O Jacob, the one who formed you, O Israel, do not be afraid for I have repurchased
you. I have called you by your name. You belong to me. You belong to me. Of course,
Jehovah here is speaking about his people as a whole, but he knows us individually.
Second Timothy 2 verse 19 tells us directly, Jehovah knows those who belong to him.
He has a personal attachment to each of us. That's how Jehovah feels about all of his precious
servants. That's how Jehovah feels about you. Well, does dedication to Jehovah mean that
life is without trials? What do you think? No? We've all experienced trials. But what assurance can we
have during those trials? Right there in Isaiah chapter 43, notice verse two, Jehovah's personal
assurance. It says, when you pass through the waters, I will be with you. And through the rivers,
they will not flood over you. When you walk through the fire, you will not be scorched,
nor will the flame cinch you. I wonder if Han and I, Michelle and Azariah had those words in mind
as the King Nebuchadnezzar condemned them to the fiery furnace. But what's the point? Jehovah
doesn't promise to remove trials, but he says, I will be with you in the flood, in the fire.
Jehovah can quiet our fears so that we can endure them, so that we can maintain our integrity
to him, even in the face of death. Well, how does that play out in real life?
Let's consider one of Jehovah's precious servants in our modern day history. Sister Valentina
Gatunovskaia. Now, she was one of many witnesses in Russia who kept her integrity despite severe trials.
In 1945, when she was about 20 years old, her brother witnessed to her, and he made two return
visits, but then she never saw him again. Well, what did she do with her limited knowledge of the truth?
She started preaching. She began to preach to her neighbors. And as a result, she was arrested
in sentence to eight years in the labor camp. In 1953, she was released and right away
resumed her preaching work. Again, she was arrested and imprisoned this time for 10 years. Now,
the picture shows Valentina with a group of sisters in a labor camp during her second imprisonment
around 1959. Well, what happened next? 1967, Valentina was again set free, and she was finally
able to symbolize her dedication to Jehovah by water baptism. Incredible. All of that, preaching,
being imprisoned, despite actually having been baptized. But that's not the end of the story.
In 1969, she was again arrested. This time, she was sentenced to three years in prison. Still,
she kept on preaching. Before she died in 2001, she helped 44 people to learn the truth.
She had spent 21 years in prisons and camps. And at the end of her life, Valentina said,
I never had my own place to live. All my possessions were in a single suitcase.
But I was happy and content in serving Jehovah. What's the lesson? Jehovah knows those who belong to
him. And he cares for them, even in the flood or in the fire. In recent years, the fire of persecution
has started to grow again in Russia. Here's a collage of nearly 700 of our brothers and sisters
in Russia who have been persecuted for belonging to Jehovah. One of the sisters in the collage
named Ludmila is currently in prison. And what was her so-called crime, according to the court
document, describing the attractiveness of serving Jehovah? Shame on the authorities
for persecuting our dear sister. These dear ones are precious to Jehovah. He is watching over them,
even if they're currently in prison. Through his word, Jehovah says that, and personally, you
belong to me, I will be with you. For these dear ones and all of us who belong to Jehovah,
we find a very interesting verse later in Isaiah chapter 43, verse 13. It says, also, I am always
the same one, and no one can snatch anything out of my hand when I act who can prevent it.
So when I act who can prevent it, Jehovah says, no one can snatch anything out of my hand. Now
previously, the New World translation said here, there is no one affecting deliverance out of my hand.
In other words, when Jehovah acts against his enemies as he did against ancient Babylon, as we
note in verse 14, no one can turn back his hand. But the current rendering, no one can snatch anything
out of my hand, made me think of Jesus' words in John chapter 10. John 10 verse 29, Jesus said,
no one can snatch them or Jesus' precious sheep out of the hand of the Father. That's a secure
place to be in Jehovah's hand. How might we illustrate this? Well, let's use an example from
Jehovah's creative works, a grizzly bear, a mother grizzly bear. She's super protective of her
for cubs. Will she care for them? Or I'll just try to get between her and her cubs and you'll
find out real fast. One reference says, mother bears are affectionate, protective, devoted,
strict, sensitive, and attentive with their young. Bears can be empathetic, fearful, joyful,
playful, social, and altruistic. Well, what about Jehovah? If a mother bear is protective and
devoted, how much more so is Jehovah interested in each one of you, each one of all of us?
Our brothers and sisters in Russia included. If we live or if we die, we belong to Jehovah.
That's a secure place to be. Never would we want to do anything to hurt our loving Father and
take ourselves out of Jehovah's hand. Rather, may we continue to live up to our dedication to him.
So what have we considered to whom do we belong? We belong to the Christian congregation,
a beautiful international brotherhood of fathers, mothers and sons,
mothers, sisters, daughters, brothers as well, all belonging to one another.
We belong to Christ, the head of the Christian congregation, who provides direction in our service
to Jehovah. Tells us when to take off, where to land. We belong to Jehovah, our God, the benevolent
Father of a loving universal family. So may we always treasure our precious place among Jehovah's
people. And as you go to your assignments, please be assured of our continued love and support.
Well, that was just a beautiful talk. You know, I just thoroughly enjoyed the whole program. How about
you? Well, now we're going to distribute the diplomas to the class. So I'm going to be helped by
Brother Ron Kurzen here. He's going to announce the students where they're going to go,
and I'm going to try to hand them the diplomas and shake their hands.
Well, to get started, we have brother and sister Shimon. We'll return to the Turkey A branch.
Brother and sister Cunningham have been assigned to the Peru branch.
Brother and sister Dylan have been assigned to the Greece branch.
Brother and sister Figlinski will return to the United States branch.
Brother and sister Gamblegaard will return to the Scandinavia branch.
Brother and sister Lee will return to the Philippines branch.
Brother and sister Labern have been assigned to the Georgia branch.
Brother and sister Mannyani will return to the Uganda branch.
Brother and sister Mikhailovich will return to the Slovenia branch.
Brother and sister Pafilis will return to the Greece branch.
Brother and sister Podmonitski will return to the Hungary branch.
Brother and sister Hossa will return to the Portugal branch.
and brother and sister Rosanne have been assigned to the United States branch.
Brother and sister Silvosa will return to the Spain branch.
Brother and sister Silvester will return to the Britain branch.
Brother and sister Torres have been assigned to the Central America branch.
Brother and sister Ben Marl will return to the Suriname branch.
Brother and sister Varsi will return to the Argentina branch.
and brother and sister Vishone will return to their Croatia branch.
Brother and sister Walens have been assigned to the Bulgaria branch.
Brother and sister Wilson will return to the Bulgaria branch.
Behold, the 154th class of Gilead.
It's a good-looking bunch here.
Well, as usual, the class would like to express appreciation
for the training that has been received,
and so Traci Figlinski is going to represent the class in a class letter.
To the governing body.
For 80 years, the Watchtower Bible School of Gilead has trained faithful men and women
to courageously preach the good news and strengthen the brotherhood.
When we first arrived, the thought of living up to that legacy seemed daunting,
but our training has changed that.
It took the focus off of ourselves.
Here in this beautiful environment, we were privileged to gather together
beside the still waters of truth and recount the righteous act of Jehovah.
The school's first registrar, Brother Schroeder, said that students of the Gilead school
are taught that Jehovah's word is absolute in its supremacy and unlimited in its scope.
We are now thoroughly convinced of that fact.
The mere mention of the name Shira Jashib is a reminder for us that God's word always comes true.
As recorded in the Book of Daniel, there is no one who can hinder Him.
How we enjoyed discovering the treasures concealed in Christ.
Elements of the ransom took on new meaning.
An unhurried look at His interactions with others has changed our approach to Bible reading
and more importantly, people.
There is much more to learn and many adjustments left to be made,
but we feel ready to do our part to reflect the love Jehovah and Jesus have for mankind.
Our love and appreciation for you, the governing body, also grew as we saw the way you care
for the interests of our Master Jesus.
By your humble reliance on God's Spirit, you keep pace with Jehovah's chariot and help us to do the same.
It is our singular honor to support you in these momentous last days.
Though we are anxious to get to our assignments and apply what we learned, we will miss being here at Patterson.
We have come to dearly love our instructors and their wives as well as the rest of the Bethel family.
The welcome we received and the way we were looked after made us feel right at home.
Thank you.
Our experience here has fundamentally changed the way we think about ourselves and our God.
The Psalmist beautifully express how we feel.
Teach me, O Jehovah, the way of your regulations and I will follow it to the end.
Your fellow workers, the 154th pass of duty.
I don't think Tracy is the only one who feels the emotion of the moment.
Well, you know when Gilead students are asked to discuss the impact that the class has had on them.
We see the same thing class after class and your class was no exception.
They don't focus on the academics.
But they really focus on the impact that the chorus has had on them as spiritual people.
How it has drawn them closer to Jehovah.
How it's helped them to become better Christians.
And that's just wonderful to see.
For you, the study of the Bible, it hasn't been a matter of learning a lot of facts and figures so you could answer written exercises.
But during the course, you have allowed the Word of God to mold you, to influence you, to change you for the better.
Now in your study of God's Word, you have seen how much affection Jehovah has for widows and orphans, for those who can't speak for themselves.
So if any of you get a measure of authority in the future, use that authority to give a voice to those who have no voice.
Now unlike college graduates who graduate from university and then they close the books and then they never open them again,
you folks are going to continue to study God's Word.
For the purpose of allowing it to mold you, to become even better men and women, even better Christians,
you're just a wonderful group, we're proud of you, we love you, and we pray that Jehovah will richly bless you.